In January of 42, everything begins to get
serious.
What did you and your classmates, who did you all
think was going to win this war? We had no doubt who
was going to win the war. The United States had
never lost a war at that point. I've always found
today's students surprised at that fact. Many
times I've had students say, but no, wait, y'all
didn't, y'all weren't afraid. I said, no, as far as
I know, our generation knew who would win it. We
weren't, we didn't know how long it would take, but
we knew what the outcome was going to be.
How soon did any of your close acquaintances leave
for active duty? None, as far as my close
acquaintances did. Not until we graduated. And by
and large, the student all went out. What we did is
we graduate on the 30th day of January,
and then the following Monday, we all volunteered
for enlistment. And within In one or two weeks, we
were all either in the Army. It was all Army then. In
this accelerated routine, did the
Aggie routine of hazing and all that, did that
change? I suspect it did. I pulled out a lot of that
stuff. I backed off. I didn't like it. I didn't mind
being hazed myself. I guess I might have been, but I
didn't think that was a thing that we ought to do,
and I pulled out, and spending a lot of time in the
Longhorn office and things of that sort, I sort of
disappeared from the the long life times in the
Corps itself. I had friends, but I didn't take care
of them. I did accept the services of a freshman
coming in and cleaning up the room. And you lived on
the campus those last three, two and a half years.
Two and a half years, right. Let's see. other
wartime events that you remember hearing about
them before you left the campus? I was on the staff.
I was an associate editor of the Longhorn. And in
the process, if you look back at the 1943
Longhorn, you will find that there were that
medals were medal winners were generally
portrayed and honored and featured within that
and so it was in that particular process that we
began to understand that Aggies were dying and
that Aggies were caught and People were out there
fighting and
it was then that I became very clearly aware,
personally aware of the military and what was
going on, battles that were going on. Do you
remember when you first had a personal
acquaintance or member of the family who was
wounded or killed in action? Yes, I did. I hear
about it. It wasn't any close family. None of those
were killed. But people who were in Alney and in the
church, I think, to the story you hear, have been
lost.
And we felt it.
Let's see, I think I mentioned, any other events
that you remember? Let's see, because D-Day comes
after you're already gone from here. Oh, I know
one. Was Muster held in your undergraduate days on
campus that you recall?
It must have been. All right, your answer is about
like everyone else's before the war. I have the
impression that muster was a low-key event until
after the war, and the war made it much more
meaningful. The war made it much more meaningful,
right. And it was musters that you held when you
were in the war, in the military, in the Imperial
Hotel in Tokyo, for example. There you go. kinds of
musters that you begin to remember. When you
graduated in January of 43, was there a final
review? There was a final review. Held? Yes.
Where? In Drillfield. Oh, okay. Like all other
forms. Okay. Do you have any idea who the reviewing
officer was? Was anybody notable? No, as far as I
know of, it was just the And commencement was held
where?
What family came for you? My mother and father
came. They came. My brother came. No, I didn't.
Just my mother and father. They were here. I loaded
up all the clothing I had when they left. And I went
back in the dormitory. Founder of the room and
stayed there until the next Monday. And then you
signed up? Then I went to Houston and we all signed
up.
At that point, how well prepared did you feel A&M
had made you intellectually? What did you, what
was your opinion? We had no question that we had one
of the best educations that you could get. We had no
way of knowing, but we were confident in our
education intellectually. I thought it
personally, I had a gated experience. Having the
kind of experience I had, not a leadership
experience, but having taken the courses in
veterinary medicine, having taken chemistry,
having associated with Paul Pearson, being
associated on the staff of the Longhorn.
And the only semester I did not distinguish was
that last semester when I put in a lot of other time
doing other things. And by that time, was your goal
to be a university faculty member? Was that what
you thought you wanted to be? I don't know what I
thought. I came to Texas A&M to be a county agent.
All right, so when you left for the war, That was
another ball game. I figured that when I came back,
I talked to Pearson, I knew it, that I would come
back at least for graduate work.
By the time I left, I think I was pretty clear that
after this was all over, I was going to come back for
graduate work. After I came back from the war, I had
only one thing in mind, and that was to come back to
Texas A&M and take a master's degree. But you had
not zeroed in, in 43, zeroed in on being a faculty
member. No. A faculty member, my mother probably
said that she thought that I would end up teaching
at Texas A&M. I never admitted it. I sort of smiled
when she said that, but that was her...
Let's see, back to some less important items.
Senior boots, where did you get yours?
Where everybody else got them. Oh, so they were new
ones? They were new ones. Remember what they cost?
No, I don't. Somehow the figure $30 or so. Did you
keep them or did you pass them on? I kept them for a
while, and then somehow in the process they were
lost. So you didn't sell them to another? I didn't.
What
were the places of high living for a student when
you were an undergraduate? Where did students go
to party?
Hard liquors? Hard liquors. Oh, okay. Hard
liquors. Yesterday's Houston Chronicle had a big
article about Aggies and other college students
binge drinking. Do you remember many Aggies
drinking until they got drunk when you were an
undergraduate? I think everyone did during their
career. Is that right? At least once or twice.
Okay. Where did you all get the alcohol? Well, it
was beer. Okay, where'd you get it?
I probably bought it at Hard Liquors. At Hard
Liquors, okay. All right, what about whiskey? You
see, at that point, you could buy beer at Bryant.
Right. Where did anybody get whiskey? Well,
that's another story, and I had to come from some
distance.
Mm-hmm. I've not heard anybody mention a
bootlegger. No, as far as I know, it was all beer.
Mm-hmm. And... No hard whiskey, no hard drink at
all. It was strictly bitter. And I've heard of a few
after the war who would drive to Burleson County,
to Whiskey Bridge, going to Snook, but I've not
heard of anything before the war about much
whiskey at all. It wasn't until Burleson County,
though it wept, and it could get over there that
people went over and... and bought their hard
liquor drinks at that particular point when you
were an undergraduate living in the core dorms was
it common for a youngster to have beer in his room no
i don't recall
maybe one or two added but i don't recall anybody
having beer in the dormitory as far as you were
aware were there any places of ill repute in brazos
county anybody houses i've not heard of any and
uh... now you went to look to lagrange uh... now
when you went downtown brian there were three four
movies downtown brian uh... and that wasn't a lot
more fun apparently then going to movie on the
campus Were there other places downtown where
Aggies would eat? Yeah, you could find a place to
eat down there. There were several places. I don't
recall their names. If your parents came to visit
or any other relatives, where did you and they eat?
Well, we probably went to the Aggieland Inn to eat.
They're near Northgate. Let's see. Did you have
any dates with Tessies while you were an
undergraduate? No, so you didn't have the routine
of getting them here and so forth.
Let's see. Let's see. Tobacco. How many students
smoked and what did they smoke?
Oh, I smoked pipes and cigarettes. Not cigars? I
don't recall. How many did? There were a number.
Half? Half, maybe. Was it okay to smoke in your
room? It was okay to smoke in the room. Couldn't
smoke in the dining hall? No. Did people dip snuff
or chew tobacco? Oh, yeah. Especially in Animal
Sun. Oh, okay.
Were you even aware of other drugs
or other things to smoke then? No. Did you know even
the word? I don't recall. I don't recall even
knowing anything. Maybe I knew something about
marijuana, but it was sort of something out in the
distance that you just didn't touch that people
did. You weren't aware that anybody here ever? No,
I didn't know of anybody here.
Let's say back to football. Describe any of those
celebrity football players that were here your
freshman year. What was your impression of them?
Well, they were Kimbrough brothers. What were
they like as people?
They go to class.
They were students. As a matter of fact, during the
time that I was a student, I was a graduate student,
the football team was in a corps right along with
the student body, just sort of assembled. So you
had football players in your so-called outfit.
Now, when the athletes went to class, they wore
their uniforms what?
Silver Taps, was it held when you were a student?
Yes. Where? The
same place it was held now. Was it similar in style
and manner? Similar
in style, the same thing. Using that, what are the
events that unify Aggies in feelings?
The events, I'm not sure that there are, well, of
course, Yale practice did. Okay. And the reviews,
whether various and sundry times brought it in, of
course, in the unifying situations.
But mostly it was within each organization and in
the classroom. It was in the classroom that you
made your friends and carried on.
Was there... Because majors generally followed
the same classes, they were in the same classes. In
terms of the way that you were accepted by your
contemporaries, and the way you accepted your
contemporaries, was there much distinction of
family income? Absolutely not. Absolutely not.
You didn't know what anybody made. You knew that
some people were gathering, you know, cleaning
and turning it back and forth,
Did anybody... Did you just presume that they
needed it? But this was... You never looked down on
them or anything? I didn't see any, feel anything.
The uniform took away a lot of that kind of thing.
And the fact that you were Missouri Synod and
somebody else was a Catholic or a Presbyterian?
That didn't make any difference either. What
about their last name? I don't know that that made a
difference. Did you have some contemporaries
that you knew that were... Well, you see, there
were no blacks. But there were Hispanic. There
were a few Hispanics, not many. Were there any from
other countries that you remember? Not the
undergraduate level. No, they were people from
particular South America. That's what I thought.
And as far as you knew, were they accepted? They
were in the Corps. And they were accepted like
everybody else, weren't they? Just like
everybody else. Now, Melvin Maltz, Houston, who
comes after the war, I asked him about nicknames,
and he said that he, being Jewish, was called Jew
Boy. And he said, I did not ever think of that as a
put-down. He said, in fact, I was proud to be
Jewish. Do you remember any incident of any sort?
Maybe, I don't know.
My nickname generally in the later years was
Conker. Kunk. K-U-N-K. Just short of your name. I
didn't use the term Harry until long after.
Really? Now, when you were growing up in Olney,
were you Harry? No, I was Harriet. Harriet. Okay.
And I presume that's Germanic? Is that a German
word?
I changed
the spelling of it when I went into the military.
It changed from what to what? From h-a-r-i-o-t
to h-r-r-i-o-t. Because I know the double r.
That's what I knew you as. Let's see, oh, Bonfire.
Bonfire was Bonfire. Where was it? It was on the
drill field. And did you help ever? Not really, no.
Not even as a freshman? There were boxes that were
put up there. Okay. There weren't any tree trucks?
No, no tree trucks or anything else. What was
usually up on the very top of it? I don't recall.
There wasn't an outhouse? There might have been.
Oh, okay. Those were more after war. Okay.
Let's see. I have here Hollywood. Was that after
the war? No. The invasion of Hollywood came in in
our senior year. And the movie, as you well know,
had never been licked.
And which... They
came in, and I was enough of around, I was with the
core, with the Longhorn, so I, at that point in
time, I met with some of the people that were
talking about the early stages of the game, and
planning our, the film, and then when they came in,
and of course, here and there, I appeared in the
movie. How long were they here? in the filming. Two
or three months. Is that right? Not very long. And
you people on the campus knew they were here, knew
it was being filmed. We were here and we used to
watch the filming. Where
did they do most of the filming? What parts of the
campus did they capture most? Well, they captured
what was known as the President's House. They
captured, of course, Visa Hall. They captured the
area's military walk. That area, they captured
the area around the Claybrook Center, not the
Claybrook, but the animal industry building
there.
And did some of y'all try to maneuver yourselves
into it? Occasionally, to be seen in it, yes. Who
were the most notable stars that y'all saw?
Memory fails me. Was Mitchum in that? Robert
Mitchum. And he was here on the campus? He was on the
campus. He played a secondary part. Quine.
Richard Quine. Yeah. Who was the lady? I don't
remember. I've got the movie at home. I could look
it up. Okay. Let's see, as you are preparing to
leave the campus, you're getting ready to go to
war. How well did you feel you were prepared for
that? Well, I felt that I could do anything. The
first thing we knew we were going to do was we were
the first class that came along that didn't have
the summer camp, which justified commissioning
right off on graduation. We all had to go to Officer
Kennedy School and had no particular problem
going there. How did your Aggie experience
benefit you there at OCS compared to the others?
The rumor is that after they lined it up, the class,
this one class of which we had mostly Aggies in it,
most of the Aggies were in this one class. The rumor
is that the military people, the officers,
came up and as we, the first day they were there,
they'd have people stand at attention and do the
good old marine type of situation. As I say, the
rumor is that they all got drunk because the Aggies
just stood up against them and didn't seem to bow or
anything of this sort. They didn't give in. Now
where was OCS for you? Fort Sill. Fort Sill,
Oklahoma. That is a rumor. I don't know what it is,
but at any rate, I don't know whether that was it or
perhaps Pretty easy time, you know, for a
candidate school.
Aggie Ring, when did you, and how much did it cost?
When did you get your ring? My ring cost me $28. And
when did I get it?
I got it the mid-semester of my junior year. Okay.
And literally had to hide it until All right, so
because you were ahead in hours? I was ahead in
hours. Okay, okay. Do you have any stories of your
Aggie ring down through the years? I lost it once in
a military restroom. Went back and found it on the
floor. My, my. During the war? During the war. My,
my. Where? Do you remember? Overseas? Macon,
Georgia. Macon, Georgia. My, my. Do you still have
it? Oh, yes. Any other stories about it? No, none
particularly. Any where you were wearing it and
somebody recognized it? Oh, yes. You always wore
it. You wore it during the military. You took it
overseas with you. That was one thing that you
kept.
I kept wearing it most of my life, except it got
too... Then I transferred it to the right, and then
I finally... got too large and it kept falling off
and I quit wearing it as a result of that. Because
I'm thinking that that's also one of those Aggie
unifying features. That is a graduate unifying.
There's no question about it. The ring is the one
that And even today, with men and women, with a very
small percentage of the student body being in the
core, that ring is still the common unifying
factor.
Curiously, I'd have it in the room. I'd put it on at
night when everybody was around. Take it off.
Because I didn't dare wear it. The seniors would
object. What are the qualities of being an Aggie?
I think the quality of being an Aggie is
a good deal of self-confidence.
That somehow, I'm all right. What I do is okay.
It lives with me. I had no trouble with courses. I
had no trouble with studies. I felt I could do
anything except be a military leader or be
elected.
And I think that's partly my personality that I
had.
I was sort of a squeaky voice fellow. I didn't gain
my loud voice until I got into the military itself,
and had to, and somebody said, sound
off.
There was also a,
probably a kind of arrogance, too,
that it was better. You're saying... Yeah, you're
saying that it's more than just confidence.
Mm-hmm. Mm-hmm.
Mm-hmm.
And they were confident that your education was
first class. Now, you must have known when you
came, you must have known a few Aggie graduates.
Yes. Do you now realize that you saw that kind of
quality in them too, some of those qualities? Yes,
I think so. That's the reason why I guess I came to
A&M. is that I came across those people
that
carried on that kind of confidence, knew them.
And you never thought about going anywhere else,
transferring? I did earlier, yes. No, no, I mean
once you enrolled here. Once enrolled? Oh, no. No,
I was most disappointed. Joe Cole, who left the
early part of us here and went to Texas Tech, I
couldn't see. I just said, you're going for an
inferior education. You just don't have any guts.
It takes guts to come around here and live here. It
takes a certain amount of courage.
All right, as you look back,
What did it mean to you, to your life, that you came
to Texas A&M?
Well, I don't know that I ever questioned
what it meant to me. I accepted that I was a graduate
of Texas A&M, and this opened certain doors for me.
I graduated immediately. I went into the military
and of course Aggies were respected in the
military.
We were,
it meant,
I don't know. which is sort of a part of life that you
had. You were there. You were an Aggie, so...
All right, I've got two other questions
scheduled. Did you hear anybody else say that? Oh,
yes. Oh, yes.
What have we not talked about about your student
days that we should have? Well, I told you I think
about everything that I needed to.